h1. Flower Text File Schema

h2. Abstract

p. This document describes the file structure and allowed properties of the txt file format for Flour.

h2. Layout

p. Each file is text based and can be edited by a normal text editor. Encoding is a non-issue as each command and property uses characters from the lower half of the standard ASCII character set.
 
h2. Comments

p. Comments may take up an entire line or be placed within a line. A comment is prefixed with the @#@ character. Once the @#@ character is read, the rest of the line is ignored.

p. Line and inline comments may use unicode.

h2. Numbers and Number Lists

p. A number can be an integer or real, and be like the following;

* 12
* -12
* 12.0
* -12
* 12E-8
* -12E-8

p. A list of numbers is seperated by a comma @,@ character, whitespace is ignored.

bc.. property 1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9

h2. Strings 

p. A string value may take up the entire line. The first character of the string is the first character in the value is not whitespace. The string is terminated by the last non-whitespace character in the line.

bc.. property I am a string.
property        I am a string.

h2. Properties

p. A property is a line that has a property name, some whitespace (tabs or spaces) then the value.

bc. property_name property_value

p. A property value may not be spanned across many lines. But some properties can be spread across many lines.

bc.. property_name property_value
property_name property_value2

p. The behavior of multiple properties is so;

* If the property accepts a range of numbers then the additional values are appended to the first, in order of lines read.
* If the property accepts a single value, then the new value replaces the previous one.

p. Depending on the mesh some properties may be ommitted.

* Convex: Vertices, Indices(Optional)
* Triangle: Vertices, Indices, Normals (Optional)
* Cloth: Vertices, Indices, Normals (Optional), TextureCoords(Optional)
* Skeleton: Vertices, Indices(Optional)

h2. List of Properties 

|_.Property Name|_.Property Description|_.Property type|_.Restriction|
|type|Type of mesh|String|'convex', 'triangle', 'cloth', 'softbody' or 'skeleton'|
|vertices|Vertices| Real list |list count must be divisible by 3|
|indices or indexes|Indices|Integer list|list count must be divisible by 3|
|normals|Vertex Normals|Real list|list count must be divisible by 3|
|texturecoords|Texture coordinates|Real list|list count must be divisible by 2|

h2. Example file

bc.. # Cube
type convex
vertices -100.0,100.0,-100.0    #0
vertices 100.0,100.0,-100.0     #1
vertices 100.0,-100.0,-100.0    #2
vertices -100.0,-100.0,-100.0   #3
vertices -100.0,100.0,100.0     #4
vertices 100.0,100.0,100.0      #5
vertices 100.0,-100.0,100.0     #6
vertices -100.0,-100.0,100.0    #7

indexes 0,2,3 0,1,2, 1,6,2, 1,5,6, 4,6,5, 4,7,6, 0,7,4, 0,3,7, 0,5,1, 0,4,5, 2,7,3, 2,6,7


h2. Future

* Support for Materials, Vertex Flags, Vertex Masses, Tetrahedra and SoftBodies.

p. END. Last modified; 10-Sept-2009, Robin Southern